Now that we've learned about firewalls,
let's look at the next fundamental concept.
With more and more organizations utilizing laptops, tablets,
phones, and IoT devices,
wireless security is more important than ever.
When we factor in that wireless can pass through the walls, ceilings,
and floors of our organization,
it's clear the security has to be right.
We'll learn about securing your enterprise wireless environment,
we'll evaluate best practices on security,
as well as implementing the appropriate authentication methods.
The objectives we'll cover in this section are choosing an appropriate solution,
choosing an authentication method,
learning additional security best practices.
Where does secure wireless fit in our three component model of security?
It's certainly prevention, but could also be
detection and respond depending on your configuration.
Choosing the appropriate wireless solution for your business can
make securing it easier and growth more manageable.
You don't want a home-based solution or one that is
too big and will require more care and feeding than you can support.
You'll find that software upgrades are needed as your clients' phones,
computers, and tablets evolve.
A company that doesn't stop working on
its product once it has been released is desirable.
Avoid any vendors that are known for only supporting
a product for X number of years before effectively forcing upgrades.
A good wireless solution can last for years,
you want your support too as well.
Does the solution require an on-premises controller or is it cloud based?
More and more vendors are cloud-based.
While one is not necessarily better than the other,
it is worth noting that a controller must be properly maintained and will
potentially change the architecture of
the wireless network if your organization has more than one location.
Is it difficult to add access points?
How about new physical locations?
Let's take a look at some common authentication methods.
EAP, extensible authentication protocol,
allows open authentication to allow the client to attach to the access point,
but then hands it off for network authentication,
usually with a RADIUS server.
RADIUS stands for Remote Authentication Dial-In User Service,
and is a centralized database used to authenticate remote users,
usually with Active Directory.
PEAP or protected extensible authentication protocol functions similar to EAP,
but adds a TLS tunnel.
Preferably you should use something like WPA2 enterprise with 802.1x encryption.
This is by no means an exhaustive list.
There are many other methods of authentication and encryption.
Choose what works best for your situation.
Now that we've chosen our wireless solution and
implemented our chosen authentication and encryption method.
Let's look at additional security measures we can
take to secure the organizations wireless infrastructure.
If your access points allow for power adjustment,
lower the power on the edge access points.
This will keep your signal from bleeding too far outside of the office footprint,
which will discourage neighbors and malicious actors from attempting to connect.
Many wireless solutions include additional security features,
such as wireless intrusion detection systems or wireless intrusion prevention systems.
Configured properly, this can help prevent
rogue access points and other wireless hacking tips.
Be sure your guest network has the same level of security as
the primary corporate wireless network and then it routes directly to
the Internet with zero visibility of your business networks.
Split your wireless network up into multiple SSIDs and network subnets.
You should have a network or Internet of Things devices such as thermostats,
mechanical items, and appliances.